---
id: 10-11
title: Version 10 to 11
---

This migration guide contains migration instructions for:

- [eightshift/boilerplate](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate/releases/tag/11.0.0) - **10+ --> 11.0.0**
- [eightshift/frontend-libs](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/releases/tag/9.0.0) - **8+ --> 9.0.0**
- [eightshift/libs](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/releases/tag/7.0.0) - **6+ --> 7.0.0**

In this release, we made a few breaking changes listed below in the required changes section. We also made a few optional changes that you can make to have all the latest changes.

The major update on this release was the support for the PHP 8+ version. 

## PHP support

**Migration time: ~5min.**

### PHP 8+

To allow support for the PHP 8+ version you need to update [eightshift/libs](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate/tree/develop) to the latest version and update your project `composer.json` to all the latest [package](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate/blob/develop/composer.json) versions.

:::tip
Don't forget to update the required PHP version in your `composer.json.` And run the composer update command.
:::

### PHP 7.4+

The latest version of the [eightshift/libs](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate/tree/develop) still supports PHP 7.4+ version. If you are using the PHP 7.4+ version, you should update your project `composer.json` to all the latest versions but leave these two packages to the previous version:

```json
"dealerdirect/phpcodesniffer-composer-installer": "v0.7.2",
"infinum/eightshift-coding-standards": "1.6.0",
```

## Required changes

**Migration time: ~5min.**

#### Remove all "old" functions from blocks.

If you used the `getAllBlocksListOld` or `getCustomCategoryOld` functions in your blocks, you should remove them and their action hooks, as those functions are no longer available.

#### Enqueue lodash library

From WordPress version 6.4+, the core `lodash` library is no longer enqueued by default. We have an internal dependency on this library, so you should enqueue it in your project if you made any changes to the `getAdminScriptDependencies` function in your `EnqueueBlocks.php` file.

You can skip this step if you didn't change anything in that function.

## Optional changes

**Migration time: ~5min.**

The following changes are not required, but you might consider adding them to have all the latest modifications.

#### Update your Config.php file

- We changed the `Config.php` file to use the project name using `TextDomain` and the version using `Version` defined in your `style.css` file.
