---
id: 11-12
title: Version 11 to 12
---

This migration guide contains migration instructions for:

- [eightshift/boilerplate](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate/releases/tag/12.0.0) - **11+ --> 12.0.0**
- [eightshift/boilerplate-plugin](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate-plugin/releases/tag/5.0.0) - **4+ --> 5.0.0**
- [eightshift/frontend-libs](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/releases/tag/12.0.0) - **11+ --> 12.0.0**
- [eightshift/libs](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/releases/tag/8.0.0) - **7+ --> 8.0.0**

**This release contains a couple of breaking changes!**
Check the list below for details about changes that will have to be made.

Also, a couple of changes are optional, but recommended.

The major update on this release is the "cache" loading functionality and refactoring of helpers.

## Important changes

This version was focused on improving speed and performance of the project and we set the minimum PHP version to **8.2** so if you project is using older PHP version you should update it before updating the setup.

## Setup scripts

We changed the setup script repository and flow so if you are creating a new project you should use the new setup script.

Theme:
```bash
// Old setup script
npx create-wp-project

// New setup script
npx eightshift-create theme
```

Plugin:
```bash
// Old setup script
npx create-wp-project plugin

// New setup script
npx eightshift-create plugin
```

## Required changes

The following changes are required to update your project to the latest version.

### Remove Manifest class

**Migration time: ~1min.**

The `Manifest` class has been removed. If you are using this class in your project, please remove it.

### Update Enqueue classes

**Migration time: ~5min.**

1. If you're using `EnqueueTheme`, `EnqueueBlocks` or `EnqueueAdmin` classes, remove the `$this->manifest` dependency from the constructor.

2. If you're using the `$this->manifest->getAssetsManifestItem` method in your project, replace it with the new `Helpers::getAsset` method.

3. If you're using the `getBlockFrontentScriptHandle` method, rename it to `getBlockFrontendScriptHandle`.

4. If you're using a custom `wp_register_script`, update the function to use the new `Helpers::getAsset` method and update the script handle if using WordPress 6.3+.

### Add the `Cache` class

**Migration time: ~5min.**

1. Run the `wp boilerplate create manifest-cache` CLI command to add the cache functionality to your project.

2. Open the `functions.php` (or `<plugin-name>.php`) file and add the following code before the `Main` class initialization:
   - [for themes](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate/blob/main/functions.php)
   - [for plugins](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate-plugin/blob/main/eightshift-boilerplate-plugin.php)

```php
if (\class_exists(ManifestCache::class)) {
	(new ManifestCache())->setAllCache();
}
```

### Replace the `ManifestItem` filter with the Asset helper

**Migration time: ~2min.**

If you're using the `apply_filters(Manifest::MANIFEST_ITEM, '<key>')` filter in your project, replace it with the `Helpers::getAsset('<key>')` helper.

### Update helpers

**Migration time: ~5min.**

1. Find all instances of the `outputCssVariablesGlobal(array $globalManifest = [])` function and remove the global settings variable, eg. `outputCssVariablesGlobal()`.

2. Find all instances of the `outputCssVariables(array $attributes, array $manifest, string $unique, array $globalManifest = [], string $customSelector = '')` function and remove the global settings variable, eg. `outputCssVariables(array $attributes, array $manifest, string $unique, string $customSelector = '')`.

### Replace all `renderPartial` methods

**Migration time: ~15min.**

Find all instances of the `renderPartial` method and replace it with the `render` method.

**Before:**
```php
echo Components::renderPartial(
	'component',
	'utils',
	'debug-field-details',
	[
		'name' => Components::checkAttr('fieldName', $attributes, $manifest),
	]
);
```

**After:**
```php
echo Components::render(
	'debug-field-details',
	[
		'name' => Components::checkAttr('fieldName', $attributes, $manifest),
	],
	'components',
	false,
	'utils/partials'
);
```

### Update the `render` method

**Migration time: ~10min.**

Find all instances of the `render` method to which more than 2 arguments are passed and update the method call to match the new signature.

**Before:**
```php
return Components::render(
	'form',
	Components::props('form', [], $formProps),
	'',
	true
);
```

**After:**
```php
return Components::render(
	'form',
	Components::props('form', [], $formProps),
	'components',
	true
);
```

### Update the wrapper and all blocks with `innerBlockContent`

**Migration time: ~15min.**

1. Find all instances of the `$this->renderWrapperView` method in your project and replace it with `echo $renderContent` method.
2. Find all instances of the `$innerBlockContent` variable and replace it with `echo $renderContent`. (applies to the wrapper, and blocks using inner blocks, like Group, Columns, ...)
3. Remove the `wrapperManualContent` parameter from all `wrapper` instances.
For more details, check the [example](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/blob/main/blocks/init/src/Blocks/wrapper/wrapper.php)

**Before:**
```php
$this->renderWrapperView(
	$templatePath,
	$attributes,
	$innerBlockContent
);
```

**After:**
```php
echo $renderContent;
```

### Replace the `Components` helper

**Migration time: ~5min.**

Helper functions from the `Components` class are renamed, and will be deprecated in the next version. They are now located in the `Helpers` class. Functions were not changed beyond the rename (except the ones mentioned above).

The fastest way to change them is to search and replace `Components::` with `Helpers::`, and `EightshiftLibs\Helpers\Components` with `EightshiftLibs\Helpers\Helpers` in the project.

### Fix Custom Post Type or Taxonomy registration

**Migration time: ~5min.**

We removed `getGeneratedLabels` helper so you should update your custom post type or taxonomy registration.

You can check the [custom post type example](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/blob/main/src/CustomPostType/PostTypeExample.php) or [custom taxonomy example](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/blob/main/src/CustomTaxonomy/TaxonomyExample.php) from the boilerplate.

### Update webpack config

**Migration time: ~2min.**

We have removed `BrowserSync` from the project so you should update your webpack config.

**Before:**
```js
const projectConfig = {
	config: {
		projectDir: __dirname, // Current project directory absolute path.
		projectUrl: 'eightshift.com', // Used for providing browsersync functionality.
		projectPath: 'wp-content/plugins/eightshift-forms', // Project path relative to project root.
		useSsl: true, // Whether to use https or http.
	},
};
```

**After:**
```js
const projectConfig = {
	config: {
		projectDir: __dirname, // Current project directory absolute path.
		projectPath: 'wp-content/plugins/eightshift-forms', // Project path relative to project root.
	},
};
```

### Replace Imposter with Strauss

**Migration time: ~10min.**

We have removed Imposter and replaced it with Strauss for prefixing namespaces.

1. Add `/vendor-prefixed` to your **.gitignore** file
2. Add **strauss.phar** to your theme root. You can get it [here](https://github.com/BrianHenryIE/strauss)
3. Make the following changes in your **composer.json** file:

- remove `typisttech/imposter-plugin`
- add the following in the `scripts` section:
```json
"prefix-namespaces": [
	"@php strauss.phar",
	"composer dump-autoload"
],
"post-install-cmd": [
	"@php strauss.phar",
	"composer dump-autoload"
],
"post-update-cmd": [
	"@php strauss.phar",
	"composer dump-autoload"
]
```
- remove `imposter` from the `extra` section and add the following:
```json
"strauss": {
	"namespace_prefix": "ProjectNameVendor",
	"exclude_from_prefix": {
		"file_patterns": ["/Example.php$/"]
	}
}
```

4. Update **functions.php** file
```php
/**
 * Bailout, if the theme is not loaded via Composer.
 */
if (!\file_exists(__DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php')) {
	return;
}

/**
 * Require the Composer autoloader.
 */
$loader = require __DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php';

/**
 * Require the Composer autoloader for the prefixed libraries.
 */
if (\file_exists(__DIR__ . '/vendor-prefixed/autoload.php')) {
	require __DIR__ . '/vendor-prefixed/autoload.php';
}
```
5. Add the following line in your **phpcs.xml.dist**:
```
<exclude-pattern>*/vendor-prefixed/*</exclude-pattern>
```
6. Add the following line in your **phpstan.neon.dist** in `boostrapFiles` section:
```
- vendor-prefixed/autoload.php
```

Once you have made these changes, remove the `vendor` folder and run `composer install`.

### Update ESLint config

**Migration time: ~10min.**

Depending on the state the project is in, you might need to allocate some time for fixing errors and warnings after updating the coding standards.

ESLint configuration has been updated in Frontend Libs 12 and a new build config was added.

To implement the changes, follow these steps:

1. Delete the `.eslintrc.js`  and `.eslintignore` files from the theme root (if they exist)

2. Add `eslint.config.mjs` file to the theme root with the following content:
```js
import config from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/linters/eslint.config.mjs';
```

3. Add a `.swcrc` file to theme root, the file and its contents can be found [here](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/blob/main/src/InitSetup/standard/theme/.swcrc).

4. Make sure the project is using NodeJS version 20 (or newer) both in development and production environments.

