---
id: 6-7
title: Version 6 to 7
---

This migration guide is represents migration for:

- [eightshift/boilerplate](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate/releases/tag/7.0.0) - **6+ --> 7.0.0**
- [eightshift/frontend-libs](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/releases/tag/6.0.0) - **5+ --> 6.0.0**
- [eightshift/libs](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/releases/tag/5.0.0) - **4+ --> 5.0.0**

### Required changes:

**Migration time: ~30min.**

1. Make sure that all editor scripts are loaded from `@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts`;
2. Make sure that all frontend JS scripts that use frontend helper load ony from `@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/helpers`.
3. We have removed PHP class `LabelGenerator` and added it in the helper Traits so it you are using it in you project you should refactor it like in the example provided [here](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/pull/277).
4. In `src>Blocks>Blocks.php` remove `getBlocksPath` method because we are not using it anymore.
5. In `src>Blocks>Blocks.php` replace all instances of `$this->getSettings()['namespace']` with `Components::getSettingsNamespace()`. Generally every place that you use `$this->getSettings()` use Component store instead.
6. In `src>Blocks>Blocks.php` add new filter `\add_action('wp_footer', [$this, 'outputCssVariablesInline']);` to be able to output one style tag styles.
7. In `src>Blocks>manifest.json` add config keys used to trigger different behaviour of the boilerplate.

	```json
	"config": {
		"outputCssGlobally": true,
		"outputCssOptimize": true,
		"outputCssSelectorName": "esCssVariables",
		"outputCssGloballyAdditionalStyles": [
			":root {--es-loaded-opacity: 1;}"
		],
		"useWrapper": true
	},
	```

8. Open `src>Blocks>assets` folder and compare it with our new layout and files located [here](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/tree/feature/variables/blocks/init/src/Blocks/assets).
9. In `src>Enqueue>Blocks>EnqueueBlocks.php` add a new action to output new frontend-only styles:
	```php
	\add_action('wp_enqueue_scripts', [$this, 'enqueueBlockFrontendStyle'], 50);
	```

10. In `src>Enqueue>Blocks>EnqueueBlocks.php` rename filter callback `enqueueBlockScript` to `enqueueBlockFrontendScript`.
11. Find all usage of `ServerSideRender` component in JS part. Then in PHP part wherever you use render method you must pass a new attribute `blockSsr`. Here is an example:

	```php
	$featuredContentServerSideRender = Components::checkAttr('featuredContentServerSideRender', $attributes, $manifest);

	echo Components::render(
		'card-article',
		Components::props(
			'cardArticle',
			$props,
			[
				'blockSsr' => $featuredContentServerSideRender,
			]
		),
	);

	echo Components::render(
		'layout',
		Components::props('layout', $attributes, [
			'blockClass' => $blockClass,
			'blockSsr' => $featuredContentServerSideRender,
		]),
	);
	```

## Improvement changes:

You should replace all instances where you are getting the data directly from the array like `$globalManifest['globalVariables']`, this can be replaced with `Components::getSettings()`.
Or for examle getting the breakpoints `$globalManifest['globalVariables']['breakpoints']` can be replaced with `Components::setSettingsGlobalVariablesBreakpoints()`.

Here are all the links for all of the Store helpers that you can use in [PHP](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/blob/feature/variables/src/Helpers/StoreTrait.php) and in [JS](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/blob/feature/variables/scripts/editor/store.js).

PHP example:
```php
$globalManifest = Components::getManifest(dirname(__DIR__, 2));

echo $globalManifest['namespace'];

// replace with 

echo Components::getSettingsNamespace();
```

JS example:
```jsx
import { globalManifest } from '../../manifest.json';

const {
	namespace,
} = globalManifest;

// replace with 
import { select } from '@wordpress/data';
import { STORE_NAME } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts';

const namespace = select(STORE_NAME).getSettingsNamespace();
```

## Optional changes:

**Migration time: ~5min.**

1. Find all `outputCssVariables` function usage (JS and PHP) and remove 4th parameter `globalManifest` because it is not in use anymore.

> At this point this parameter will not cause any error but it will be removed in the next major release and then it will cause a fatal error so you should remove it.

2. Find `outputCssVariablesGlobal` function usage (JS and PHP) and remove the parameter `globalManifest` because it is not in use anymore.

> At this point this parameter will not cause any error but it will be removed in the next major release and then it will cause a fatal error so you should remove it.

3. Add style changes to `src>assets>styles>parts>utils>_core.scss` file in the `body` selector to provide content flickering on render. Here is an example:

```scss
body {
	//...
	opacity: var(--es-loaded-opacity, 0);

	transition: {
		property: opacity;
		duration: 0.5s;
		delay: 0.6s;
	};
}
```
